---
title: INF 335W Project 1 - About Me
---
## About Me

{% include image.html
            img="project1-me.jpg"
            caption="Hello World!" %}

Hi! My name is Jennifer Plunkett (but I mainly go by Jenny), I've been living in Austin for the past 3 years but I used to live in Illinois. I will be a 4th year Computer Engineering undergraduate at The University of Texas at Austin in the fall. I will be taking quite a few iSchool courses in the next couple of years to fulfill my major's secondary core requirement, Academic Enrichment. During the school year I work part-time as a web developer and knowledge manager for the IT <a href="http://www.servicenow.com/">ServiceNow</a> team at UT. ServiceNow is a service and IT operations platform (basically the platform will centralize all IT, facilities, and HR needs to one online location). Currently, I am a project management intern at <a href="https://www.arm.com/">ARM, Inc.</a> in Austin, TX. In the past I have also interned with The Walt Disney Company in Orlando, FL through the <a href="http://cp.disneycareers.com/">Disney College Program</a>. I was a Merchandise Cast Member working in the shops on Sunset Blvd. in Disney's Hollywood Studios.

{% include image.html
            img="project1-nametag.png"
            caption="My Cast Member nametag." %}

My interests in different careers vary widely; I'm still trying to narrow down my choices between software engineering, web development, project management, information technology, and graphic design roles. I can find pieces of every type of career that really interest me but not one has screamed, "do this for the rest of your life, you'll love it!" However, I can't really see myself sitting behind a computer screen writing code all day (unless it's for web development, of course). In my free time I enjoy playing <a href="http://us.battle.net/wow/en/">World of Warcraft</a> and <a href="http://us.battle.net/hearthstone/en/">Hearthstone</a>, I’m also an avid reader and am glued to my Kindle as much as possible.

#### Doing Project Management Ironically

Rolfe, Bradley. "<a href="http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/science/article/pii/S1877042813004515">Doing Project Management Ironically</a>." <em>Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences</em> 74 (2013): 264-73.

“Project management,” at least in the engineering community, is an extremely broad and widely overused term. While there are entire professional institutes dedicated to creating formal project management methodologies, many times the project manager only implements a methodology “ironically” in the workplace; meaning they are blindly using a formal methodology without questioning its usefulness to the specific project. Rorty’s “project management ironism” suggests that even though a formal methodology can be the best implementation for a technical project, many times thinking creatively and defining a new lifecycle process would be more time, cost, and resource efficient. Alluding to the Enlightenment, in order to create even better project lifecycle management processes, we must be questioning and critical of the existing formal methodologies and suggest new processes. As suggested in the paper, “the ironist sees other languages as offering further opportunities for self-exploration, without seeing any as offering a more accurate description of their reality, only a more useful one” (Rorty, 1989).

#### Exploring the Development of Computer Drawing in Graphic Design from a Technology Philosophy

C. F. Yang and C. S. Sun, "<a href="http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.ezproxy.lib.utexas.edu/xpls/icp.jsp?arnumber=7473045">Exploring the Development of Computer Drawing in Graphic Design from a Technology Philosophy</a>," <em>2016 IEEE Symposium on Service-Oriented System Engineering (SOSE)</em>, Oxford, 2016, pp. 333-339.

The early Apple computer was cutting edge in terms of hardware design. Today, Apple continues to manufacture some of the most beautiful and visually pleasing computers on the market. As hardware design as progressed through the years, so has digital graphic design. There have been two major points throughout history that have prompted the evolution of graphic design: the invention of photography and the invention of the computer. The production of more complex and modern graphic design technology is a direct result from the advancement of computer hardware and software. Graphic design will continually be a major part of our culture; we witness graphic design in almost every medium throughout our daily life, from magazines and advertisements to product packaging and website design.
